Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome
Vice President Development Technologies,
Ted Goldstein.
Thank you very much.
Good afternoon.
Let me hear you a little louder.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Hello.
This is the
Development Tools State of the Union,
or as I like to think of it,
The development--no.
This is The Hitchhiker's
Guide to Xcode Tools.
Why the Hitchhiker's
Guide to Xcode Tools?
Well, it was a great movie,
and it's a lot of fun.
I think we're going to have a lot
of fun with this presentation.
But did anybody bring a towel?
Thank you, thank you.
Got to have a towel.
Of course, you know,
the Hitchhiker's Guide is all about,
you know,
essentially the end of the world
and changing it to a new world,
which is what we're really
all about doing here.
So the first message, of course,
is don't panic.
Don't panic, right?
It's not so bad.
You know, we're in pretty good shape,
in fact, because really,
Apple really has the tools you
need to create the greatest
application in the universe.
Apple--we've been working on
this for a number of years,
and we've been thinking about
the kinds of things you're
likely to encounter should this
day of a major transition come.
So first, though,
before we get into a lot
of details about that,
I want to recap, essentially,
what Xcode is about and some of
the other great tools in Tiger.
Tiger, of course,
we shipped it on April 29th,
and we also shipped Automator
on April 29th as part of Tiger,
and that was also the day, in fact,
that the Hitchhiker's Guide to
the Galaxy movie came out.
Now, this is kind of a similarity here.
In fact, we-- We tend to think of
this little man as Otto,
and I think Otto can
kick that little man,
Marvin's butt.
It's, you know, a nice similarity.
Marvin kind of depressed.
Otto, you know,
he really wants to help you.
Automator is a great application.
It really is there to help expand
what your applications can do.
It has very little
functionality of itself.
In some sense,
it is a modern Unix shell-type thing
with a graphical user interface.
So, user interface.
[Transcript missing]
Now I want to talk about Xcode.
And of course,
start talking about Xcode 2.0.
Now, Xcode really is the fastest way
to create Mac OS X applications.
There's a number of wonderful
features we put in it--CodeSense,
predictive compilation,
distributed builds.
These are things which speed
up compilation and the ability
to get--to find and create
the program that you're doing.
Zero link essentially incrementally
links your program as it's running.
And fix and continue is a debugging
feature so that when you make a--you
can make a modification on the fly
without quitting the program state,
the compiler runs and dynamically
links in the--the changed code
into the application and so
that you can continue along.
Xcode 2.0 essentially is kind of a world,
right?
It's a whole environment,
and this environment contains many
important features that really
help you develop application.
Each of these features we've
designed as part--and delivered
with Xcode 2.0 as part of Tiger to
accelerate your development,
to make it easier to develop,
to widen your capabilities.
One of the big improvements in Tiger was
the transition from GCC 3.3 to 4.0.
And we made improvements
there on every point.
We made improvements
to make it both faster,
better, and more powerful.
We improved the front end,
the middle end, and the back end.
The front end,
one of the most important things
I'm sure you'll love is that
it's 20% to 30% faster compile
times for C++ and Objective-C++.
And we did this by writing a new
C++ parser that's part of the
Free Software Foundations community.
We've added in, of course,
Objective-C part of it
to make it Objective-C++.
And it's much better
standards conforming.
It gives you improved better
errors and warning messages.
To the middle end,
we made important changes
in order vectorization.
So if you don't want to write
the vector code yourself,
you don't have to.
And in fact, just with one switch,
it can actually, in many cases,
take floating point loops and
generate the AltaVec instructions.
We've improved the integration
of all the features.
So between, for example,
C++ and Objective-C.
So now, for example,
you can implement the C++ code.
You can embed your Objective-C,
your C++ objects in your
Objective-C objects.
But an extremely important technology
that's a foundation there now
that is going to continue paying
dividends for many years to come
is a new technology called TreeSSA.
TreeSSA is essentially the single
static assignment optimization
technology that is the most powerful
optimization technology that every high
performance optimizing compiler uses.
Using that, we're able to now do
better loop optimization,
loop unrolling,
being able to -- the order
vectorizer is driven off of this.
And we will be adding in additional
optimizations coming along.
So if you have -- you can
actually help since GCC is,
of course,
from the free software foundation.
You, too,
can check out a copy of the source code,
make modifications,
and improve the optimization
capabilities of the compiler.
In the back end, another important
feature is long doubles,
giving you even more precision.
And for the first time,
we are now standardizing on a C++ ABI.
This means that you no longer have
to link in the lib standard C++
library into your application.
So Hello World is only a few K bytes in
size instead of several hundred K bytes.
And, of course,
a great feature for G5 is 64-bit,
being able to access greater than
4 gigabytes of virtual memory.
Altogether,
GCC 4.0 is a fabulous new platform and
part of the new universal compiler that
we'll be talking about in a few minutes.
Auto vectorization.
So this is a piece of code extracted
for doing image processing.
And essentially, what we've seen in these
kinds of very tight loop code,
we're seeing anywhere between
a 10% to 20% improvement,
because essentially,
it's able to execute many of these
instructions as a vector operation,
being able to perform the
operations in parallel.
Here too, again,
we'll be adding in more vectorization
types as we move--as we develop the
application--Xcode in GCC4 further along.
Next major feature to talk about,
of course,
is the transition from 1.4 to 5.0.
This technology adds in generics
and other features as part of it.
Another part of Tiger is we've
upgraded Shark from 3.8 to 4.1.
4.1 includes incredibly
good data mining facilities.
What that means is that now
you can actually drill deep.
You can actually have
a performance graph,
have this massive data,
and isolate a segment of the graph
and drill in to see what the stack
traces are so that more and more
of the information is exposed.
I think you'll find that the data
mining really improves the coping with
the complexity of a large application.
We, of course,
upgraded WebObjects for Tiger.
And we introduced a major new
feature inspired by WebObjects
called Xcode Design Tools.
Essentially what this is,
is bringing in the entity relationship
class modeling so that now any C++,
Java, Objective-C,
Objective-C++ object model can be created
and manipulated by the class model.
This is also a very important technology
because this is the gateway technology
to--gateway technology to core data,
which is, of course, laid on top of both
SQLite and XML data files.
The interesting thing here
about the design tools is now
you can actually--this provides
a fabulous interface to complex
structures within your application.
Another gateway technology
and tool is Quartz Composer.
You saw that Quartz Composer essentially
is a way to manipulate image units.
Image units are the basic
building block for filters.
Much of the beautiful look we get out
of Mac OS X applications is because
we have this great engine underneath.
To be able to--Quartz Composer
gives you the ability to prototype
and pull these different filters
together and get some idea of what
kind of visual effect they have.
They can then be--you then take
the data file which describes
the filter layering and can then
embed it with your application to
directly drive the image units.
We also introduced in Tiger,
in Xcode 2.0, the ADC Reference Library.
What this does is it downloads a copy
of the Reference Library off the web
and keeps on monitoring for any updates.
So you are always assured of
having the freshest and most latest
documentation for your system.
This, I think,
improves the whole usability
and quality of the documentation
interacting experience as well.
Of course, what you really are dying to
hear about is Intel and how it
is that we're going to support.
So it's time to broaden our
horizons above just our home world.
Let's go on a little trip.
Welcome to the universe.
And the universe consists
of many processors.
PowerPC and Intel, of course,
are the ones we're focused on today.
And really, shipping an application that
supports both is--you know,
we have not underestimated that
there is some challenge to this.
We've really designed the tools in Xcode
to really support both environments.
And with Xcode 2.1,
we're introducing this idea
of a universal interactive
development environment,
one that, of course,
that can target and make it very easy
to develop code for multiple--multiple
processors simultaneously.
And we think this is an extremely
important and helpful to you.
In doing so, we've talked to you,
heard your feedback,
learned what you like about
other programming environments,
and what we've tried to do is
take the best from Eclipse,
from Code Warrior, from Visual Studio,
and bring them into Xcode.
So as part of Xcode 2.1, for example,
we've improved the compile chain.
We've improved the way the build system
and project file management works.
We've improved the way the debugging
and profiling infrastructure works.
And we've improved other tools.
So really,
there's improvements in every aspect
of the system to really make Xcode
so much more an enabler for your
environment and for your system.
And I think that you're
going to like these changes.
So first, of course, is universal.
We use this word to mean
a variety of things,
both at the binary level and
at the application level,
to enable your application for
the different CPU architectures.
So first, of course, is universal.
We use this word to mean
a variety of things,
both at the binary level and
at the application level,
to enable your application for
the different CPU architectures.
You'll find that in fact that we have
taken this approach of different kinds
of components and resources that you
manage and extend your application with,
and really to be able to make it so that
it's both easily internationalized to
make it--to make itself very successful.
Being able to generate, of course,
to multiple application
processors is the--is key.
As part of making it a universal IDE,
we have this idea of that you can do,
of course,
host the target on the same machine,
but of course,
being able to do cross-development
is extremely important.
And you can work on
either environment today.
So, for example, here at the conference,
you'll be living on perhaps
your PowerPC laptops,
but you will be trying out
your application code on the
Intel systems in the labs.
To enable this,
the technology under the hood is
this idea of a universal binary.
Universal binary puts
in one executable file,
one A.out, essentially,
multiple segments.
Each segment can have the Intel,
the PowerPC,
the PowerPC 64 code for each section.
And essentially what each section
contains within it-- the load
commands and the text and data
sections-- that that processor needs.
Now this, of course,
as you saw in Scott's talk,
really simplifies how end users think
about what an executable looks like.
And also I think you'll find
that it simplifies your job,
that you don't have to do
this juggling back and forth.
You can actually extract
out the individual sections.
But the entire experience of you as
a developer really is focused around
trying to do this and maintain a
single file that is the universal
binary for all the different sections.
As we said,
this is just one click makes it easy.
We put this handy little checkbox in.
And this is also, of course,
the place where you can enter by hand
other architectures as they come along,
including support for
things like PowerPC 64.
Now, in saying that GCC 4.0 is
the universal compiler,
Bertrand didn't overstate it.
This compiler has been ported around
to well over 100 architectures.
And what we've done is we've
updated it with the latest version
from the Free Software Foundation.
What's really nifty about
this compiler is that,
of course,
it's widely used in the Linux community
and other communities out there as well,
such as Solaris.
So this compiler has already seen
billions and billions of lines of code
before we're delivering it to you.
It has already been--gone
through tremendous shakeout.
So you're not dealing with something
that is going to be very buggy.
In fact,
it's--we've had extremely good results.
There are many tuning options to
support the Intel architecture.
And, of course, we've added in auto
vectorization support for SSE.
You can also write intrinsics to get
at the SSE MMX instructions natively.
Now, one of the features that people have
commented to us that they've seen
in other programming environments is
to actually control the optimization
level on a per-function basis.
You may want to make different
size space trade-offs.
So, for example,
so what we've done is we now
allow you to set the optimization
level inside the code on a
per-function basis using a pragma.
Doing a reset essentially
pops off the stack what the
last optimization level was.
So you can embed these
optimization levels to really
give fine-grained control.
Simon talked a little
bit about bit fields.
We provided an additional mechanism,
which essentially is--allows you
to reverse the order of the bit
fields so that if your bit fields
are--if you have data stored in a
data file in one bit field order,
but you, in fact,
are in the opposite architecture,
you can then surround this with
if-defs to control that you're
on the correct architecture.
So these kinds of features really,
I think, help with making the system more
conducive to being universal.
Shared precompiled headers is
another great feature we've seen
in other programming environments.
And essentially what it does is
it allows you to take the PCH,
the precompiled header file,
and share it across multiple dial-ups,
multiple targets or
plug-ins in your project.
This gives you the ability to
have direct control over the
state of creating the PCH,
and it accelerates the compile time.
Simon went over this pretty well.
I'll just simply reinforce Intel,
of course, is a little Indian.
It supports SSE vector processors
and vector instructions and has a
divide by zeros handled differently.
For the heat seekers,
because you're going
to go after each one,
accelerate is the preferred way to do it.
Because as we upgrade,
as new architectures come along,
we will always be tuning for
the machine architecture.
So it's best--of course,
we always know what's
coming down the pipe.
We put in the work to do the
most complicated and important
algorithmic tuning that's
necessary for vector operations,
math, graphics, DSP routines.
And then we'll go into the process
of creating the most complex and
complex model that the CPU requires.
The auto vectorization routine is a help.
And then as sort of a last resort,
handwrite the SSE intrinsics yourself.
[Transcript missing]
You need to install the SDK.
In the past,
you probably have ignored it.
You just noticed cross development.
Didn't even bother with
the turn down triangle.
But now we recommend that you open
it up and do click on--certainly
for this week on your laptops.
Please install the Universal SDK.
You will need it for most of the
hands-on sessions that are going
to be happening at the conference.
Another important feature
is our build configurations.
Now, build configurations
replace build styles.
Gives you a much more
intuitive user interface.
No more strike through text.
The big idea behind build
configurations is essentially now
you can manage and take parameters
and store them separately.
Each configuration essentially
builds to a separate folder.
In the past, in Xcode 2.0 and before,
When we had build styles,
which essentially was a big switch.
We were either in sort of debug
and development build style,
or release build style.
And you threw a big switch and that meant
you had to throw away all the binaries,
do a build clean, and then rebuild.
If you wanted to switch back,
you threw it away again.
Of course,
if you were trying to both debug and
use both configurations simultaneously,
it wasn't easily supported.
Now with configurations, each project,
each configuration builds
into a separate directory.
And this means that you can
actually change and manage the
parameters per build independently.
You can actually even store
the settings in a file.
I'd like to invite
Chris Espinosa up to give a demo.
Chris?
Thanks, Ted.
[Transcript missing]
Some of the settings would actually
be crossed out in the user interface,
and there'd be no tooltip or explanation
as to why it would be crossed out.
The biggest offender, of course,
would be Zero Link.
How many people have seen
Zero Link crossed out in their target
inspector and wondered what that meant?
Most of you, that's right.
Well,
what that meant was that that setting
was set in the build style for debug,
and that that overrode what you're
seeing in your target inspector,
which was functional,
but it was confusing.
It wasn't Mac.
It wasn't what you see is what you get.
So what we've done in Xcode 2.1 is
that we've replaced build styles with
a concept called build configurations,
which is that the groups of settings
for each kind of deliverable
are right there in your target.
And we've actually changed the name
to be debug and release by default.
We hope you can keep that clear.
So when I look at my target inspector,
what I get is a pop-up
menu for configuration,
and it has debug and release.
And if I look at the debug settings,
zero link is checked.
And if I go to the release setting,
zero link is not checked.
So I get what you see is what you
get right there in the inspector.
[Transcript missing]
And I get a new file that's just a
text file with a certain suffix on it.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going
to go back to my release configuration,
select those settings
that I had in release.
I'm going to cut them
out of the inspector.
and I'm going to paste
them into the text file.
We save.
And there are my settings.
So now I'll go back to the inspector
and now I have a pop-up menu for
what this configuration is based on.
And I'm going to pick that file I just
created and saved external release.
And there go my flags back.
Now of course,
the whole point of this was I wanted
test to share settings with release.
So I go to test,
set it based on the same file,
and it gets the same settings.
So now when I go and change one of these
settings in the text file and save it,
watch the checkbox on don't
dead strip in its terms.
It turns off.
I can take that text file,
commit it to my CVS repository,
check it out, modify it,
share it among multiple targets,
share it among multiple
projects and subprojects,
so I can have one standard
set of settings that all of my
configurations inherit from.
Now, this is a pretty big change.
This is the most important
change we've made in the
Xcode build system in a while.
Why did we put it in a dot release?
The reason is that this is
really going to help you manage
creating universal binaries.
Because one of the things
you're really going to want to
do is in your configurations,
You want to pick your architecture,
and instead of building your
release configurations for
the native architecture,
you're going to want to build them
universal for PowerPC and Intel.
And when you get that,
you're going to want to put them
into your configuration file,
and then
All of your release configurations
will be built universal.
We think this is really going to help
you manage your universal binaries.
Thanks very much, Ted.
Why don't you work on that example
some while I talk a little bit.
We've enhanced the project file format
in addition to the configurations.
And of course, many people work in teams.
Imagine that.
We've made it so that
it's much more readable,
it's diffable, and it's mergeable.
You can actually make changes to the
project file and merge it together.
It's also much more stable.
But these two features come at some cost.
So the new file format
has a new file extension,
.xcodeproj.
And this means that there's
a one-step migration from
Xcode 2.0 to Xcode 2.1 format.
This new format-- this migration
is an unfortunate consequence,
but it means now that we
can actually have both merge
capability and configurations
managed in this new structure.
Moving on, yes, unit testing.
It's not enough, of course,
to write the code.
You've got to debug it.
And you want to be able to make changes
to your code with confidence that you
haven't broken any of the invariants.
Unit testing is one of the
reasons why we ship Tiger on time.
Sometimes we wonder if Redmond
has seen the book on this.
It lowers the course because you're
actually able then to incorporate
much of the model creation and
change as part of the build process.
And we've adopted industry standards,
of course, of C unit and OC unit,
J unit and such, into the project.
The methodology that we're
espousing here is a test-first,
test-as-you-develop approach.
And it means that every time
you make changes to your code,
just as a natural part
of building the project,
you're able to have the test run.
One of the great things here is that
you need to evolve the test case as
you are evolving the code base itself.
And so in doing so,
you'll have greater confidence
that the changes are incorporated.
We've included templates,
we've included the tools,
and errors and warnings are reported
in the build window and in the smart
groups just the way compiler errors are.
So there's a very good chance
that programmers will notice this.
[Transcript missing]
I could add a condition
here in the condition box,
and I can make it
continue or not continue.
For now, I'm going to make it stop
when it hits that breakpoint.
I can also add multiple actions,
and all of the actions will
happen in the sequence that they
appear in the breakpoints window.
So now that that's done,
I can close that window and
I can debug the application.
And it'll load up.
Figuring out the answer.
And I've hit my first breakpoint,
and I'm sitting there.
Now, that's great.
I can use speakable breakpoints
for long algorithms or things
that are hit very infrequently,
or especially for points where
I really don't want to stop,
but I just want to continue.
But in this case,
that was just making sure
that I got into main.
What I really want to do is
I want to watch that program
flow of my init methods.
So I've set some other breakpoints
in my breakpoint window.
And notice all of these init
line 8s in all of the classes.
Those are visualization breakpoints
on the init method of every class.
So if I continue from here,
I'm going to hit the first one.
And what it's done is it's built a
dynamic class diagram of the class I'm
in and its superclass in relation to
all the other classes in the diagram,
and highlighted the method
that I happen to be in,
which is the init method.
I'm going to make this a little smaller,
because I'm going to be doing--
I'm going to be
generating a lot of these,
and I'm just going to change
this breakpoint to a--
visualizing auto continue
after one second.
That is really the only
interface that you need to it.
You can customize it,
but just control click
on your breakpoint,
pick the visualization and continue.
And that's the way you do it.
It's really cool.
So now when I continue,
I'm going to hit all of those
other visualization breakpoints.
And as it hits every init
method in every class,
it dynamically adds that
class to the diagram.
And you can watch the bars move
down the initialization chain as all
of the supers are getting called.
Now, of course, when it gets to the end,
I put another breakpoint because
I'm calculating the answer
while I'm doing all of this.
And we're going to hope
this has actually worked.
It didn't take 240
million years last time,
but it was actually pretty quick.
When I get to the last
class that's added,
it's going to give me the final answer
to the ultimate-- The answer is 42.
And that's correct.
There we go.
Thank you, Ted.
Thank you, Chris.
So that's Actions and
Visualization demo feature.
Events are triggered to
perform many important things.
You can use this to modify
the behavior of your program.
You can change and capture the state,
run external commands, shell scripts,
Apple scripts, and of course,
visualization.
The visualization feature, I believe,
really is the first of a whole new
class of great debugger features that
we're planning on to allow you to
understand the large scale behavior
of the way your program works.
And of course, the answer is 42.
Speaking of 4.2, in CHUD,
we have a new developer preview.
It's not on your DVDs,
but it will be available for
download later this week.
And it, of course,
supports Intel-based Macs,
includes Monster, a new feature that is
directly integrated into CHUD,
and includes all the wonderful
features you've had for PowerPC,
such as time profiles,
disassembly for architecture,
the ability to have Intel-specific
optimization tips and be able to
visualize all the system traits that
are unique to the Intel processor.
Java native code is also
supported in this release.
And of course, thanks for all the fish.
Speaking of Java and 42-- boy,
that number just keeps
on coming back there,
doesn't it?
Java 1.4.2 is on the system.
And Java 5.0 preview is online,
I believe.
Is that correct?
Yes, it is available for download.
So no waiting for Java 5.0.
The preview is available
and includes auto boxing,
generics.
And one of the first for
Apple computer is we are releasing
both the C1 interactive client
compiler and the C2 server compiler.
If you're not into Java,
this isn't meaningful to you.
But if you are, C2, of course,
is a much more high
performance version of Java,
great for long-running server-based
applications and scientific computing,
great optimization technologies.
In Xcode, we have enhancements that
support breakpoint actions
and code visualization.
Actually, we have that as well
for AppleScript as well,
supporting breakpoint actions.
So no second class.
languages here.
WebObjects is now being bundled.
The tools are now included in Xcode 2.1.
and there's a development
license with every copy.
We have a new emphasis on Mac OS X,
really trying to make it extremely fresh.
One of the things that you'll see in this
release is EOF modeling support is now
integrated into the Xcode design tools.
and there's a development
license with every copy.
We have a new emphasis on Mac OS X,
really trying to make it extremely fresh.
One of the things that you'll see in this
release is EOF modeling support is now
integrated into the Xcode design tools.
Thank you, Ted.
Good to see you.
Yeah, at Intel,
we've been working on compilers
for a number of years,
and I'm really excited to be
able to know that Mac OS X is
finally going to be on Intel.
So this is really an
exciting time for us.
We're going to take our
C++ and Fortran compilers,
and we're going to take those
products and put them on Mac OS X,
on Intel, and we're going to have
that as soon as we can.
How's that going?
It's going pretty well.
So far we have Hello World working.
Excellent.
First step.
As you know, Hello World is sort of an
early milestone to see if the
compiler is living and breathing.
And as we were porting it across,
we started setting up this
cross-development environment
where we'd be hosted on some other
operating system and cross-target.
And then we said, "Oh, what the heck.
Let's take the code, use Xcode,
and self-host the compiler."
And it really just,
you know,
worked just about right out of the box.
It was very little effort at all.
There really is an easy way to
port to OS X and Intel using Xcode.
It's really the way to go.
I'm sold on it.
Great.
A couple other things.
Okay.
So, as you know,
Hello World is sort of an early
milestone as you're--as you're
moving a compiler across.
So we aren't quite ready to announce,
you know, when the product's available.
We will be announcing that at Intel's
developer conference in August.
We'll give you specific product details,
when the beta starts,
when the product will be ready,
et cetera.
We've been working on technology,
compiler technology for
Intel processors for quite a while.
We really have a
state-of-the-art compiler.
It's all ready to go.
And it really maximizes
performance on Intel architecture.
It will be a little
bit before it's ready.
In the meantime,
really get started on the port now.
Use Xcode.
Get over there.
It's really easy to use.
Everything works.
And then later, the Intel compilers will
just kind of seamlessly slip
into the build environment,
and you'll be able to use them also.
Great.
So we think Intel compilers
will be a great enhancement to
the tools that Apple's already
providing in the Xcode environment.
So... Great.
Happy to have you on board Xcode.
Thank you.
This is really good.
Well, welcome to Mac OS X.
Just as, I guess,
we're welcome now to the Intel CPU.
So it really is amazing,
because we are getting one of the great
compilers in the world on the Mac OS X.
And we think that it's
important that you have choices.
Apple, though we believe that we
are the principal provider,
we have the tools you need to create the
greatest applications in the universe.
And really, of course,
what this is about is you.
This is about you creating the
greatest universal applications.
So I want to actually invite
Matt Formica up and tell us a little
bit about the rest of the conference.
Thank you, Ted.
Thanks.
So looking out at the audience here,
I actually recognize a lot of you.
As the developer tools
evangelist for Apple,
I've toured the country and even
parts of the world over the past year,
telling you all about Xcode,
as well as getting your feedback.
You guys are the pros,
and you have high requirements
from your developer tools,
and you've given us a
lot of good feedback.
Features like build configurations,
the updated project file format,
and per function optimization pragmas
really are there in part because
of the feedback you've given us.
So, for those of you who
are already using Xcode,
you can really just step
in and enjoy Xcode 2.1.
And I'm so proud of the engineering
team at Apple for the features that
they've built into this version.
For those of you not yet using Xcode,
really the time to move to Xcode is now.
Xcode gives you the power to
keep up with the platform to
build universal applications.
It also includes these powerful new
productivity features that we've told
you about today that allow you to go
even further with your development.
So how do you get there?
Well, the Xcode engineering team,
as well as developer relations,
are really here to help you with this,
both this week and often to the future.
Here at the conference,
we have a variety of labs where
we will actually sit down with
you and help you on your code.
We also have a variety of
informative sessions where we'll
give you the information you
need and answer your questions.
You can test your code on the developer
transition systems here at the show.
Ask us questions,
and we'll try and help you.
These are a few of the Xcode
support labs that are scheduled
through the week on Tuesday,
Wednesday, and Thursday.
I encourage you to stop by.
In addition, there are some important
sessions you should go see.
Perhaps the most important
session of the rest of the show
is tomorrow morning at 9:00 AM.
It's not in your show guide,
because Xcode 2.1 wasn't announced
yet when the show guide was
handed to you and printed.
But 9:00 AM tomorrow morning
is What's New in Xcode 2.1.
Following that session is Adopting Xcode.
That's a hands-on session,
especially for those of you new to Xcode.
You'll want to make sure you've
got your Xcode 2.1 installed
when you come to that session,
and download the associated sample code
off of the WWDC website so that you
can follow along with that session.
The WebObjects overview session
is also tomorrow morning,
where you can find out more
about the details of how we've
bundled those into Xcode.
So that's what we're doing here at WWDC.
What about beyond WWDC?
After the conference,
there are a variety of resources
you can take advantage of.
The Xcode users' email mailing
list is a great resource.
It's really a great community of
people that are eager to help answer
your questions about using Xcode.
If you get stuck on one particular point,
you can contact
Developer Technical Support,
where they will bring in engineers
from Apple's Xcode team to help
you work through any issues as
you build universal applications.
If you do happen to find any bugs,
and we think we've nailed most of them,
you can file those at
bugreporter.apple.com.
We take your bugs very seriously
and read each and every one.
So those previous things
are available to you,
whatever level of member you are
of the Apple developer connection.
But if you're a selector
premier developer,
there are even more benefits.
And as has been talked
about earlier today,
you can get the developer transition kit.
You can actually get one of the
systems with Intel inside today,
or actually within the next few weeks,
and start experiencing the future now.
You can bring your code over
and actually test and debug
your code on those systems.
If you've got feedback
on the Xcode Tools,
you can reach me at mformica@apple.com
or just flag me down in the halls.
I'd love to get your input,
both on what you love about Xcode--and
there's a lot to love there--or
what we could do to tweak things,
make them even better.
So thank you all very much.
Enjoy Xcode 2.1 and enjoy WWDC.